To get started building our own visuals and to set up the development environment, we need to understand
which programming language we actually need to use when creating custom visuals
and as you might know, there are a lot of different programming languages,
so are you free to choose whichever language you want?
Well not really. Custom visuals in Power BI are simply just HTML documents in the end,
so each visual you drag into your report or you add to your report is just a tiny little
HTML
document, a little webpage you could say.
Now of course it misses a lot of the features webpages typically have but all the graphics, everything
you see is created with HTML, CSS and Javascript,
the three languages you use
for creating webpages, at least from a front-end perspective,
so from what runs in the browser. If you already know web development, it should be easy to follow along
and build your own visuals
and if you don't know it but plan to dive deeper into creating your own visuals,
learning web development, especially as mentioned front-end web development might be a great idea since
this is what you will use to build your own visuals.
Now whilst it is true that we use HTML,
of course the visuals charts often are about shapes,
rectangles like in a bar chart as you can see here or circles or anything like that and whilst you could
build these shapes with normal HTML,
there is one specific HTML element which really makes your life easier here and that is svg, scalable
vector graphics. In a normal webpage,
you can embed svg graphics to quickly add such shapes or such illustrations to a webpage and it's
the same for your visual
since you use HTML, you could use svg here and that's the great thing, with svg
you can easily build these shapes. Now with svg and HTML, we get a powerful way of creating our shapes.
So what we will do in the end here is we will use web technologies as mentioned before, so that's HTML,
CSS and Javascript,
though I have to say something about that Javascript part. We don't actually use Javascript when creating
our own custom visuals, we use Typescript which is a superset to Javascript.
So what is Typescript and
why do we use it? If we have a look at vanilla Javascript which is the language which runs in the browser
and which also runs in Power BI in the end,
we know that yeah runs in every browser and it's a powerful language but it misses some features other
languages have, for example the support for strong typing. In Javascript and you may already know this,
if you have a variable which holds a number, you can easily assign a string thereafter to it and Javascript
won't complain.
That can be an advantage but often times, it's a disadvantage because your code is unpredictable and
you as a developer can run into problems which you can't detect during development which only occur
once your app runs.
That is one of the issues types Typescript fixes,
it adds many new features to Javascript, for example types but also other things like classes or interfaces,
so it makes it easier for you to code your app, to work with
Javascript or then Typescript
and that is the main advantage.
What will happen though is it is always compiled to Javascript during development,
so you write Typescript code and then some program, some compiler, Typescript ships with one will automatically
compile the code to Javascript once you're done
so that what runs in the browser or in Power BI
in our case is Javascript and that is important. It is Javascript but we use Typescript during development
to get these extra features, to have an easier life basically.
So that is the language we'll use, Typescript together with some HTML and some CSS but most of
the work will happen in Typescript.
Now one issue we might face is that
we of course have a data-driven document and we will have a look at this in the next lecture.